README.md, before:

<p align="center">
<img src="moroz.png" alt="moroz"/><br/>
</p>

Moroz is a server for the [Santa](https://github.com/google/santa) project.

> Santa is a binary whitelisting/blacklisting system for macOS. It consists of a kernel extension that monitors for executions, a userland daemon that makes execution decisions based on the contents of a SQLite database, a GUI agent that notifies the user in case of a block decision and a command-line utility for managing the system and synchronizing the database with a server.
>
> Santa is a project of Google's Macintosh Operations Team.

See this [short video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3w3_bcJYWj0) for a demo.

# Configurations

Moroz uses [TOML](https://github.com/toml-lang/toml#example) rule files to specify configuration for Santa.
The path to the folder with the configurations can be specified with `-configs /path/to/configs`.

Moroz expects a `global.toml` file which contains a list of rules. The `global` config can be overriden by providing a machine specific config. To do so, name the file for each host with the Santa `machine id` [configuration parameter](https://github.com/google/santa/wiki/Configuration#keys-to-be-used-with-a-tls-server). By default, this is the hardware UUID of the mac.

Below is a sample configuration file:

```toml
client_mode = "MONITOR"
#blacklist_regex = "^(?:/Users)/.*"
#whitelist_regex = "^(?:/Users)/.*"
batch_size = 100

[[rules]]
rule_type = "BINARY"
policy = "BLACKLIST"
sha256 = "2dc104631939b4bdf5d6bccab76e166e37fe5e1605340cf68dab919df58b8eda"
custom_msg = "blacklist firefox"

[[rules]]
rule_type = "CERTIFICATE"
policy = "BLACKLIST"
sha256 = "e7726cf87cba9e25139465df5bd1557c8a8feed5c7dd338342d8da0959b63c8d"
custom_msg = "blacklist dash app certificate"
```

# Creating rules

Acceptable values for client mode:
```
MONITOR | LOCKDOWN
```

Values for `rule_type`:
```
BINARY | CERTIFICATE
```

Values for `policy`:
```
BLACKLIST | WHITELIST
```

Use the `santactl` command to get the sha256 value: 
```bash
santactl fileinfo /Applications/Firefox.app
```

# Build

The commands below assume you have `$GOPATH/bin` in your path.

```bash
cd cmd/moroz; go build
```

# Run

`moroz`  
See `moroz -h` for a full list of options.

```bash
Usage of moroz:
  -configs string
    	path to config folder (default "../../configs")
  -event-logfile string
    	path to file for saving uploaded events (default "/tmp/santa_events")
  -http-addr string
    	http address ex: -http-addr=:8080 (default ":8080")
  -tls-cert string
    	path to TLS certificate (default "server.crt")
  -tls-key string
    	path to TLS private key (default "server.key")
  -version
    	print version information
```

# Quickstart

Download the `moroz` binary from the [Releases](https://github.com/groob/moroz/releases) page.
Copy the `configs` folder from the repo somewhere locally. It must have the `global.toml` file.


Generate a self-signed certificate which will be used by Santa clients and the server for communication.

```
./tools/dev/certificate/create
```

Add the Santa CN to your hosts file.

```
sudo echo "127.0.0.1 santa" >> /etc/hosts
```

Add the self-signed cert to your system roots. 

```
./tools/dev/certificate/add-trusted-cert
```

## Install Santa:
The latest version of Santa is available on the GitHub repo page: https://github.com/google/santa/releases

## Configure Santa:
You will need to provide the `SyncBaseURL` settings. See the [Santa repo](https://github.com/google/santa/blob/01df4623c7c534568ca3d310129455ff71cc3eef/Docs/deployment/configuration.md#important) for a complete guide on all the client configuration options.

## Start moroz:
Assumes you have the `./server.crt` and `./server.key` files.

```
moroz -configs /path/to/configs/folder
```

---
moroz icon by [Souvik Bhattacharjee](https://thenounproject.com/souvik502/) from the [Noun Project](https://thenounproject.com/).

Commit message:

Changed whitelist/blacklist to allowlist/blocklist (#30)

README.md, after:

<p align="center">
<img src="moroz.png" alt="moroz"/><br/>
</p>

Moroz is a server for the [Santa](https://github.com/google/santa) project.

> Santa is a binary allowlisting/blocklisting system for macOS. It consists of a kernel extension that monitors for executions, a userland daemon that makes execution decisions based on the contents of a SQLite database, a GUI agent that notifies the user in case of a block decision and a command-line utility for managing the system and synchronizing the database with a server.
>
> Santa is a project of Google's Macintosh Operations Team.

See this [short video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3w3_bcJYWj0) for a demo.

# Configurations

Moroz uses [TOML](https://github.com/toml-lang/toml#example) rule files to specify configuration for Santa.
The path to the folder with the configurations can be specified with `-configs /path/to/configs`.

Moroz expects a `global.toml` file which contains a list of rules. The `global` config can be overriden by providing a machine specific config. To do so, name the file for each host with the Santa `machine id` [configuration parameter](https://github.com/google/santa/wiki/Configuration#keys-to-be-used-with-a-tls-server). By default, this is the hardware UUID of the mac.

Below is a sample configuration file:

```toml
client_mode = "MONITOR"
#blocklist_regex = "^(?:/Users)/.*"
#allowlist_regex = "^(?:/Users)/.*"
batch_size = 100

[[rules]]
rule_type = "BINARY"
policy = "BLOCKLIST"
sha256 = "2dc104631939b4bdf5d6bccab76e166e37fe5e1605340cf68dab919df58b8eda"
custom_msg = "blocklist firefox"

[[rules]]
rule_type = "CERTIFICATE"
policy = "BLOCKLIST"
sha256 = "e7726cf87cba9e25139465df5bd1557c8a8feed5c7dd338342d8da0959b63c8d"
custom_msg = "blocklist dash app certificate"
```

# Creating rules

Acceptable values for client mode:
```
MONITOR | LOCKDOWN
```

Values for `rule_type`:
```
BINARY | CERTIFICATE
```

Values for `policy`:
```
BLOCKLIST | ALLOWLIST
```

Use the `santactl` command to get the sha256 value: 
```bash
santactl fileinfo /Applications/Firefox.app
```

# Build

The commands below assume you have `$GOPATH/bin` in your path.

```bash
cd cmd/moroz; go build
```

# Run

`moroz`  
See `moroz -h` for a full list of options.

```bash
Usage of moroz:
  -configs string
    	path to config folder (default "../../configs")
  -event-logfile string
    	path to file for saving uploaded events (default "/tmp/santa_events")
  -http-addr string
    	http address ex: -http-addr=:8080 (default ":8080")
  -tls-cert string
    	path to TLS certificate (default "server.crt")
  -tls-key string
    	path to TLS private key (default "server.key")
  -version
    	print version information
```

# Quickstart

Download the `moroz` binary from the [Releases](https://github.com/groob/moroz/releases) page.
Copy the `configs` folder from the repo somewhere locally. It must have the `global.toml` file.


Generate a self-signed certificate which will be used by Santa clients and the server for communication.

```
./tools/dev/certificate/create
```

Add the Santa CN to your hosts file.

```
sudo echo "127.0.0.1 santa" >> /etc/hosts
```

Add the self-signed cert to your system roots. 

```
./tools/dev/certificate/add-trusted-cert
```

## Install Santa:
The latest version of Santa is available on the GitHub repo page: https://github.com/google/santa/releases

## Configure Santa:
You will need to provide the `SyncBaseURL` settings. See the [Santa repo](https://github.com/google/santa/blob/01df4623c7c534568ca3d310129455ff71cc3eef/Docs/deployment/configuration.md#important) for a complete guide on all the client configuration options.

## Start moroz:
Assumes you have the `./server.crt` and `./server.key` files.

```
moroz -configs /path/to/configs/folder
```

---
moroz icon by [Souvik Bhattacharjee](https://thenounproject.com/souvik502/) from the [Noun Project](https://thenounproject.com/).
